>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
We are coming to you live
from the Gaiam studios
here in Boulder, Colorado.
And since this is a
live show, I encourage
you to interact with me
via Facebook and Twitter.
We encourage your questions
throughout the show.
And we will be asking the
guests questions as well.
So you see the bumper
stickers on the cars that say,
create world peace.
And you've seen
the Occupy Movement
rush across the country.
But what is really
being done right now?
What's really being done
about our current economic and
environmental structures?
Are we moving towards
a global domination?
And if we are, what
can we do about it?
That's what we're
talking about today.
Experts say that awareness
is 80% of the solution.
And today we're talking
about solutions.
Joining me are Foster Gamble
and Kimberly Carter Gamble.
And they are the
visionary filmmakers
of the movie "Thrive" which is
an inspirational documentary
that raises so much awareness.
But most importantly, it
brings about solutions.
Thank you both very
much for being here.
Incredible film.
Millions of people
have already seen it.
It's offered here on Gaiam TV.
How long did it take
you to make this film?
>>KIMBERLY CARTER GAMBLE: It
actually took us eight years.
Eight years to make the
film and the website.
Really there's a super
comprehensive website,
thrivemovement.com.
In a lot of ways
we've said the movie
is a trailer for the website.
>>LISA: And it's
a two hour movie.
It's a long trailer.
>>K. GAMBLE: It's
quite comprehensive.
>>LISA: But what was
the vision behind it?
Why did you need
to create something
like this that brought about so
much awareness and solutions?
>>FOSTER GAMBLE: My answer
would probably be 50 years.
Because it really has been a
lifelong pursuit and then dream
come true for me to
finally get this film out.
Because, as I
described in the film,
I had a vision when I was
14 of a fundamental energy
pattern of the universe.
And the teacher that I
told about this vision
had the wisdom to say, wow,
what an interesting idea.
Keep going on that, and let
me know what you come up with.
I didn't know it would
be the rest of my life.
>>LISA: Did you see pictures
in your mind of this, or--
>>F. GAMBLE: No, I was
riding on a school bus
and looking out the window.
And I think the light
blinking through the trees
probably helped put me in
a somewhat altered state.
And all of a sudden
there was this whirlpool
that I was seeing, as if
it were out in the air.
And then I was seeing an
atom in the middle of it.
Then the atom transformed
into a solar system
so I was seeing the
similarity between those.
And then I got a
whole body sense
that somehow I was
that same pattern.
That remained a mystery
to me for a long time.
But it gets addressed
in the film.
>>LISA: It gives me chills
just to hear you talk about
that because that was a real
vision that came through
to you.
And you carried it out which
is a story in and of itself.
But the idea behind
the film-- I want
you take a look at
this clip because it
shows the concept
behind the film
and this energy,
this toroidal energy
that Foster is talking about.
Take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>NASSIM HARAMEIN:
These toroidal dynamics
are visible at various scales.
One of them is at
the galactic level,
which are huge spinning
structures with billions
of stars in it.
Looks like, typically, big arms
of galaxies spinning around.
And they have vortices
that goes from the center
out to the edge of the galactic
halo that surrounds them.
Stars move from this galactic
disc out to the halo,
down the vortices,
and back out again.
Stars like Arcturus,
for instance,
we know have done
that path already.
That's the appropriate
description
even for the atmosphere
of our planet.
The weather goes from the
North Pole down to the equator
and then back up.
From the South Pole up to the
equator and then back down.
Even the dynamics on the surface
of the sun are very similar.
Of course here
we're looking at it
from an external perspective
on a small scale model.
When you look at the
solar system embedded
in the galaxy, embedded
in the cluster,
embedded in the
super cluster, we're
traveling in this boundless
sea of infinite torus flow.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: I particularly love
the visuals in this movie.
It really helps
represent something
that we can't see
with the normal eye.
And you have put
so much into this.
I love the aesthetics
that it brings.
It's like a whole 'nother guest.
>>F. GAMBLE: We really wanted
to help people see in 3D.
And we've been getting
communications from people
all over the world.
From spiritual communities,
from healers, from growers,
thanking us for finally
putting into graphics
what they have been
seeing in their intuition,
and what they've been
using in their healing,
and teaching their students,
and so forth for years.
>>LISA: So it's really
connecting with people.
>>F. GAMBLE: Yeah, exactly.
>>LISA: Very good.
Now, once you started seeing
this energy in the universe,
did you start to see it
everywhere in history?
Did you look back?
I mean, was it like
attracting like?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well, one
thing led to another.
And I had no idea where
it was going to lead.
When I came to the realization
with a lot of other scientists
that I was working
with that this torus
pattern and the-- what
he calls the vector
equilibrium structural geometry
that is a pair with it-- when
we realized that that was
fundamental at all scales,
I realized that we couldn't be
the first ones to know that.
And sure enough, as we started
looking back through history,
and I got educated by people
like Nassim Haramein and Graham
Hancock and Stan
Tenen and others
who really looked into
this-- it turns out
that ancient mystics have
encoded this information
and actually send
it across millennia.
>>LISA: This is what
I find so fascinating.
Take a look at this clip.
You can see where
the torus shows up
in history, ancient history.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>F. GAMBLE: Here we are at
one of the world's oldest
sacred sites, the Osirian
Temple at Abydos, Egypt.
>>HARAMEIN: Very little writing
is found in the Osirian Temple.
However, there is one
very significant piece
of information in that Temple.
It is a very faint but
clear and precise drawing.
It's not etched into the
rock; it's not carved.
It's burned into
the atomic structure
of the rock in some
extraordinary way.
>>F. GAMBLE: Nassim has
decoded the Osirian symbol
in three dimensions.
Since our world is
not two-dimensional,
it makes sense the codes
relaying information
about our world also wouldn't
be limited to flat designs.
His three-dimensional
version of the Osirian symbol
starts with the
vector equilibrium,
a perfectly balanced force
field with 12 equal energy
lines radiating out.
They stabilize its center
like the 12 spokes of a wheel.
The primary pattern of
balanced energy flow
around this structure
is the torus.
Here we expand to
the next larger scale
with a total of 64
pyramids called tetrahedra.
If we then put spheres
in representing
the toroidal energy
field surrounding
each of the pyramids and then
we drop away the pyramids,
we end up with a matrix
that is, amazingly,
an exact overlay for
the Osirian icon,
a three-dimensional model
of the same pattern that
was burned into the rock
wall of the Egyptian temple
thousands of years ago.
Now we travel across
continents, from Egypt to China,
where the same geometry appears
at another sacred site built
in 1420.
>>HARAMEIN: Then you go
to the Forbidden City
where the sun gods reside.
And where you find that
the ancients, the fu
dogs, the guardians
of the knowledge--
they guard the knowledge
under their paw.
>>F. GAMBLE: The same
geometry of 64 energy units
is encoded again.
I started wondering, is
it just a coincidence
that the exact
same design appears
in significant places on
two different continents?
But then Nassim showed me
that this geometry of 64
is encoded time and again in
cultures across the centuries
and from all over the world.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: You could actually
see the Gaiam logo
within that symbol as well.
>>K. GAMBLE: It's funny to watch
the clips because it really
speaks to-- some
people naturally see
the geometry of space and are
interested in these patterns.
And I came into this more
with sort of a social justice
orientation.
And what's the
ramifications on people?
And how does all
this fit together?
>>LISA: What's it mean to me?
Yes.
>>K. GAMBLE: And what does
this mean to human beings?
And even in unpacking
what does it
look like-- we were so grateful
to work with Liquid Buddha
Studios to do these graphics.
To actually show and give
a chance for those of us
who don't just naturally
see it everywhere,
to sort of unpack it
and put it in terms
like 12 spokes of a wheel.
And to do that and make it
available to a wider audience
to be able to see
something that's-- I mean
it's so fascinating.
And that does have such
profound human implications
because this pattern-- you
know as we're going to see,
and as the movie explores,
is related to energy.
And that really is
fundamental to the well-being
of people on the planet.
Whether it has to do
with can they stay warm,
can they get clean water,
can they get hospital care.
All of that is energy related.
So this fundamental pattern
that's been encoded.
Like, why has it been encoded?
What is it here to teach us?
And what's its
relation to energy?
Is really where the science
and the justice meet.
>>LISA: Meet-- which I
love the through line.
So what does this
torus mean to us?
What does it mean
to our fossil fuels?
What does it means
to our energy?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
for me the key
is that it's the
pattern of wholeness
throughout the universe.
And that wholeness is the key
to sustaining relationships,
to sustaining our health, to
sustaining economic systems,
and so forth.
So the universe is actually
showing us at every level
how to create a system
that can continue.
If you have a smoke
ring in the air
and you cut it with your finger,
the whole thing will dissipate.
Otherwise, it will actually
last for quite awhile
because it's a whole dynamic.
So if we can understand
this pattern,
then we can access energy
in a clean, free, safe way.
If we understand
this wholeness, we
can create an economy based on
true freedom and transparency
that can prosper like a garden.
Just in an unlimited way.
And it's the same thing in
health care, holistic health
care.
So it's the pattern that's
reminding us and showing us
how to align with the
natural flow of the universe.
>>LISA: So it, in and
of itself, is an example
of how all of our systems
can correct themselves and be
fully self-sustaining.
>>F. GAMBLE: It's a blueprint.
>>K. GAMBLE: It is a template.
That's the way we relate to it.
>>LISA: So this next
clip shows this--
how the torus creates unlimited
amount of free energy,
essentially.
Take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>F. GAMBLE: A modern day
inventor, Adam Trombly,
was inspired by Tesla's work
and by the possibilities
of the torus.
Trombly built a dynamo, a
direct current generator
that accessed electrical
power right out of the air.
>>ADAM TROMBLY: We were
trying to demonstrate
that by mimicking the
magnetic field of a planet
and rotating this
device, we could actually
create a dynamo that would work.
And in fact, it did work.
And it does work.
So when we contemplate nature,
when we contemplate Jupiter,
or we contemplate a dynamo like
the Earth rotating in space,
we're basically
talking about a magnet
which is rotating in space.
And the lines of
flux of the magnet
are pouring down in through
in this toroidal pattern
of the magnetic field.
It's also expanding
and contracting.
It's breathing.
It's taking in the
energy of space,
literally, and transforming it.
Right here in the toroid
we have enough energy
to transform the entire Earth.
And that's not just a
theoretical statement.
It's literally true.
To contemplate the
implications of this
means that every single place
on Earth suddenly has power.
Every single person on
Earth suddenly has power.
We have universal abundance.
>>F. GAMBLE: Trombly
had been invited
to demonstrate one
of his generators
at the United Nations
and the US Senate.
But these events were
undermined by the first Bush
administration.
Then the device itself was
taken in a government raid.
Trombly's experience
isn't unique.
Almost every time
I found an inventor
with a promising new technology
in the field of free energy,
he told a similar
story of suppression.
Inventor John
Bedini began working
with Tesla's theories of
radiant energy decades ago
and has produced an assortment
of battery charging devices
that generate more energy
than it takes to run them.
He announced that he was
going to start offering them
at low cost.
Soon after that, he
was attacked in his lab
and warned not to
produce the devices.
For his own safety,
he had to let
go of marketing free energy.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: So Paul, one of our
Facebook viewers is asking,
do you fear for your
safety when you're
presenting this information
on the "Thrive" DVD?
>>K. GAMBLE: Well, I would
say that our strategy for this
was that we put it
out in 10 languages
all over the
internet in one day.
And all of the
facts in the movie
have been corroborated
by third party
and are mentioned at
thrivemovement.com.
So clearly, it's risky.
And at the same time, the more
people who are aware of it,
the safer we are.
So our strategy
really was get it out.
It's now-- it's about to be
in 16 different languages.
People are translating
it on their own
in order to get it
into their own culture.
So I feel like we knew that we
were taking a risk in doing it.
And at the same time,
having this conversation
about free energy, having
more people talk about it
and know that it's
possible makes
it safer for the inventors.
And having more people
know about the information
that "Thrive" reveals
makes it safer for us.
>>LISA: It's about awareness.
And it's up to the people to get
this information to take legs
and to have movement.
What would our world
look like if we
had access to total free energy?
How would that change?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well, first of
all, imagine people anywhere
on the planet having
access to heat.
Or having access to
air conditioning.
Or having access to the
energy to pull the water up
out of their well.
To transport their goods
and services around.
So that people would
not have the burden
of having to spend a
tremendous amount of their life
just trying to get
a drink of water
or just trying to
grow their food.
>>LISA: To pay for it?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
to pay it for it
or to walk three
miles for it-- back
and forth just to get the water
for the family for the day.
So fundamentally, to
free up somebody's time,
and also then to
free up their money
to put into things
that are actually
can make a difference
in other people's lives.
And that's just the
beginning of what
it would be like being
in a healthy economy.
And one where we're blending our
systems with the natural flow
of energy instead of
going up against them
in every single area.
>>K. GAMBLE: We did have a
chance to visit these labs.
And you know, it's a whole
different kind of energy.
And I think it's
important to make
the distinction about the
notion about perpetual motion
is not possible.
The parts that make up
the device wear out.
It's the energy that's
infinite and abundant.
And it's--
>>LISA: And you've seen this?
>>K. GAMBLE: --a
cold, white light.
It's not hot and yellow.
We've seen it.
I am absolutely, thoroughly
convinced that it is a reality.
I understand the
motive to suppress it,
and I believe that-- we put out
"Thrive" for free, to go viral,
because we really believe that
people knowing that this exists
can help get it out, and
that it can transform
the geopolitical
dynamic on this planet,
really, faster than anything
in recorded history.
>>LISA: So why is it suppressed?
Why?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
it's a great question
because we're never going
to convince anybody,
even with video,
that this exists
until they can
use it themselves.
But the powerful question
is, if it's not real,
why are all these
inventors being so
systematically suppressed?
And to make a long story short,
I think there's two reasons.
One is for money and
one is for power.
Because there are a
lot of people-- well,
there are a few people who still
own what Stephen Greer refers
to as this 200 trillion
dollar piggy bank, which
is the oil, gas, and coal
reserves still in the ground.
And they don't want to
give up those profits.
And secondly, a lot of those
same financial elites use
money, use energy,
use food in order
to control other people's lives.
And all of a sudden everybody
having democratic access
to energy frees up a
lot of people's lives.
>>LISA: That is a big
conversation, Foster.
It's very well explained
in this next clip.
And shows many, many
different aspects
of what Foster is talking about.
Take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>BILL STILL: The
problem is we have
a privately-owned central
bank system in the United
States disguised as a
government-owned system.
If you look in
the telephone book
here in the Washington,
DC area, you
look up for Federal Reserve
in the blue government pages,
it's not there.
It's in the white pages right
next to Federal Express.
It's a privately-owned
central bank.
>>What is the proper
relationship--
what should be the
proper relationship
between the chairman of the Fed
and a President of the United
States?
>>ALAN GREENSPAN:
Well, first of all,
the Federal Reserve is
an independent agency.
And that means,
basically, that there
is no other agency
of government which
can overrule actions
that we take.
There is no other
agency of government
which can overrule
actions that we take.
>>CATHERINE AUSTIN FITTS:
We have a private bank
that prints money on
behalf of the treasury.
The Federal Reserve prints
money on a debt-based system
which creates scarcity.
But it puts a group of insiders
in a position of having access
to all the data about the
economy when we don't.
So you have a small
group of bankers
who understand the data on how
the money works in the economy.
And it gives them the ability
to print money in a way
that the insiders are protected
and everybody else is drained.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: So our Facebook
listeners are asking,
can we really be
that controlled?
Is that really a possibility?
>>K. GAMBLE: Well, I think
that the evidence is there.
And one of the things
that we did in "Thrive"
and on the website is
we really unpack it.
Because it's so
socially challenging
just to talk about
notions of conspiracy.
But when you just understand
it and how it works, and you
understand a need-to-know
pyramid structure of how it is,
you can see it operate in
little ways and in big ways.
And I think the main point is
that the reason that we follow
the money, the reason
that we expose the banking
elite and the
conspiracy that we do
is because it informs us so that
we can have leverage solutions.
We're not just
looking for bad news
so people can feel powerless.
We're really looking to
empower self-creating movements
that are already going
on and that are now
happening even more and
more all over the world.
Because if you understand
what's in the way,
then you can actually
create a solution
that's commensurate
to the task at hand.
And understanding
our money system,
and how-- if someone
can make up money,
then you're playing
in a rigged game.
And to recognize
that it's rigged
is very important so you don't
keep playing in some ways.
Well if I just tweak this
or I just tweak that,
then I'm going to be able
to make this thing work.
We don't believe
that that's possible.
And so instead, in order
to have a-- really create
a fair economic system and make
it so everyone on this planet
has a chance to
thrive, it's going
to take more than
a little tweaking.
And recognizing that is
a way that we can now
be truly empowered for solutions
that will make a difference
instead of knowing people
are good, they're trying,
and yet somehow there's just
this random failure everywhere
you turn.
I feel more optimistic and
more empowered after having
come to the
understanding that I have
in the course of making
"Thrive" than I ever did before.
>>LISA: Which is why
you focus so much
on the solutions in the
movie, which I really do
appreciate that.
Now, so if we are this
controlled, in what ways can
we really break that control?
I mean, if it's affecting
us in every single area
of our finances-- even on a
personal level with our cell
phones and email,
that everything
is being tracked-- how do we
protect ourselves as citizens?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
a couple of things
that I think are
really critical.
One, to realize that
ultimately, real transformation
always comes from the bottom up.
If you're depending on
the next elected official
to bring you the kind of
freedom and prosperity
that everybody dreams of, I
don't see the proof in history.
And secondly that
I think that what
we're missing is the
key word: voluntary.
Because if you're-- everybody
wants to be able to be free
to make their own choices
and not having other people
invading their body, their
finances, their family,
whatever.
And yet, can we be
that controlled?
It happened in
China, it happened
in Italy, it
happened in Germany.
It's happening all over
the planet right now.
>>LISA: I want to
show this clip.
Sorry to interrupt.
I want to show this one
clip about the cell phones
and emails.
I want you to see
this, take a look.
Sorry.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>F. GAMBLE: Every
phone call and email
we send is collected
and archived
and can be inspected
at any time.
Our driver's licenses
and passports
have computer chips implanted
in them to track our every move.
And now hospital patients
are getting these same chips
implanted under their skin.
In fact, it was Procter &
Gamble who developed these chips
initially for tracking
their products.
It's always offered
as a way to help.
But even an Assistant Director
of Central Intelligence
has admitted it's an
entry point to getting
all of us chipped for
better tracking and control.
These would-be controllers,
through the US Space Command,
have outlined a plan called
Full Spectrum Dominance.
Sophisticated satellite
surveillance as well as
directed energy
and laser weapons,
which are already
developed, have the ability
to target dissenters
anywhere on Earth.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: So what is
your reaction to that?
I mean, mine is appalling.
>>F. GAMBLE: Well, it is.
It's chilling.
And it can seem like some late
night, bad B movie or something
like that.
Except that it's
really going on,
and this is what it looks like
before police state comes in
throughout history.
And even since
the film came out,
Obama has recently
signed an executive order
on March 16th which
gives him the power
to take over all of
our natural resources
and bring back in a draft and
take over labor-- any company
that he wants, just under
the rubric of in the service
of national defense.
And then people--
>>LISA: Bring back in a draft.
That was signed?
>>K. GAMBLE: Yeah, March 16th.
>>F. GAMBLE: It's
an executive order.
He just did it all by himself.
No votes or anything like that.
That's what a dictatorial
system begins to look like.
>>LISA: That we
don't know about.
>>F. GAMBLE: And he
also signed the NDAA
that people are getting
familiar with now
that allowed the government to
basically kidnap, rendition,
even assassinate without
much cause at all.
Just if they're
suspected of being
a dissident against the
government, or a quote
unquote terrorist.
>>K. GAMBLE: Yeah,
American citizens.
They can do that now
with American citizens.
>>LISA: The point here is to get
into the solutions around this.
We could down the
rabbit hole of fear,
and I want to
perpetuate the growth
that we can take away from this.
And what we can do in our own
families, in our own homes.
There's even a Facebook
question in saying,
what if I tell my
children about this?
Is it going to
cause a lot of fear?
>>K. GAMBLE: Well,
I would recommend
that anyone who wants to
share this with their children
first watch it on
their own, first.
I think that's important.
And I think you need to know
who your child is and is
this an appropriate and
helpful thing for them?
I know, for me,
with my children,
ultimately how they
felt is like, wow,
what an amazing
time to be alive.
Because there is such
an opportunity here.
I mean, when you understand
the banking system,
it lets you understand
that if you put your money
into a centralized bank, and the
bank uses your deposits to fund
the corporations so that
the corporations can fund
their-- the banks can fund
the corporations to do
their projects, then if you stop
doing that and move your money
into a local bank--
>>LISA: There's part of
a solution right there.
>>K. GAMBLE: So we
can get into that.
But the point is, it's
understanding how this works
and the money system
that lets you know
what's a more
leveraged solution.
>>LISA: We're going to just take
a quick break because I want
to get to the solutions,
specifically in the clips
as well.
So we're going to
take a quick break.
When we come back, we'll be
back with Foster and Kimberly
Gamble.
We're going to talk about
some solutions found
in the movie "Thrive."
We'll be right back.
Welcome back to
"Gaiam Inspirations."
I'm Lisa Garr.
My guests are Foster Gamble
and Kimberly Foster Gamble.
>>K. GAMBLE: Kimberly
Carter Gamble.
>>LISA: Kimberly Carter Gamble.
Excuse me.
And I said that before.
Guilty by association.
So we were talking
about solutions.
And the film, which
you just saw a clip of,
is all about solutions
in the second part.
And that is
something, by the way,
that you can show your kids.
There's such amazingly
beautiful visuals
in this about our
future and how it
can look if we were
to thrive, really.
And they're beautifully
put together.
So I really appreciate that.
So let's talk about some
of the organizations
and how many people are
involved in the solutions.
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
there are many layers
to the answer to that question.
Because as Paul Hawken
points out in the movie,
there are over a
million, probably
more like two million
organizations worldwide,
independent, who are
dedicated to the environment,
to social justice, and to peace.
So that's the greatest
emergence of social action
in human history.
What we're doing
with "Thrive" is
looking to empower self-creating
solutions groups anywhere
that they want to spring up.
And they are
springing up in cities
all across the country,
all across the world.
Where they can address by
sectors-- by education,
environment, health, and
so forth-- whatever issues
are relevant to their
local community.
And also then linking them
together with other cities
and other organizations
around the world
so that people aren't having
to reinvent the wheel.
They can share best
practices, inspire each other,
join in on petitions,
and so forth.
And it is just
absolutely thrilling
to see what's going on.
>>K. GAMBLE: I just want
to say that you can really
see what happens
because-- like on the GMO
free zones, for
example, which is
a hugely successful
movement throughout Italy.
Now Maureen county,
California is GMO free.
You know we're going to have
this app out early this summer
that will allow people to
connect with each other who
are engaged so that
all of the-- whatever
it is that they did to help make
that happen can just be taken
on by other communities
and adapted slightly.
But people don't have to
keep on recreating it,
as Foster was saying.
And that can happen.
There can really be model
cities in any number of places
that will take on
a specific issue
and then share that with others.
And I think that's important,
as is knowing that just whatever
your passion is
and your purpose,
you can bring that to it.
So that you don't
have to do it all.
>>LISA: There's a lot
coming in through Facebook.
Dave says that there's
a currency that's
being created in
Ithaca, New York.
Their own currency.
So if people have ideas
of things that they're
doing in their own
communities that are working,
to create sustainability
within their own communities,
they can go to this app
and connect and link
to other people.
Brilliant.
>>F. GAMBLE: Yeah,
related to that,
what they call Ithca
Hours which has
been a successful
alternative currency.
The key word, once
again, is voluntary.
If everybody gets to create
whatever currency they want,
like they did in
Ithaca, then the most
successful, trustworthy
ones will surface.
If people want to create
a currency that's actually
backed by commodities,
gold or whatever,
then people are going to
gravitate to those ones rather
than the ones that are
backed by nothing at all.
>>LISA: What is the
Ithaca currency?
Is it based on trade?
>>F. GAMBLE: Yes, it's
local trading of hours.
It's kind of a time bank.
And the key thing is
that that's really--
can be very successful
for a local community.
It's not great for trading
computers internationally.
But the key is, if people
can create what they want,
then you're going
to get the ones that
are appropriate to the
scales and the ones that
are most trustworthy.
>>LISA: Just like
it was meant to be.
>>K. GAMBLE: That's why the
whole subsidies and bailouts
give a completely false
picture because things
that don't actually work
end up rising to the top.
So if that's one
of the strategies,
large scale is just make
sure that doesn't happen ao
that something based on
integrity and performance
is what can rise.
And really, it is happening.
We are out now, around, and we
hear from people, literally all
over the world, describing
different solution strategies
that they're getting going
in their own community.
And our job, really,
at this stage
is to just empower those
self-creating movements.
So that's what we're looking
to do through the website
and through this app.
>>LISA: I want you
to see the website.
The website has
all sorts of ways
of connecting different
organizations that
are doing this kind of
work in your communities,
around the country,
around the world.
Take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>K. GAMBLE: We
spent years creating
a vast website,
thrivemovement.com,
that brings it all together
and makes the information
and what we can do about
it accessible to everyone.
Here you have your very
own navigator module
to go deeper into the main
subjects covered in the film.
Code, problem, and solutions.
You can study
strategies and tactics,
and connect with others to
take high leverage actions.
>>F. GAMBLE: Every fact
stated in this film has
been independently verified, and
the references on our website.
This sector navigator
facilitates whole systems
thinking that recognizes
that actions in one area
impact all the others.
The center of the
sector navigator
is worldview because
it determines
how we experience
everything that
happens within and around us.
In every sector you'll find
critical issues, resources,
group strategies, and
individual actions
to peacefully and productively
effect real change.
Our resource tree will link you
to the people, organizations,
and media that we
most recommend to help
you get more fully
educated and engaged.
I was encouraged
to find that there
are a minimum number of
actions which working together
can tip the scales.
It's not endless.
Once we see the big picture,
we'll look at what each of us
can do to help accomplish it.
Let's take a look at
the strategic antidotes
to their economic domination.
We need to stop any
more bailouts of banks
or corporations, dismantle
the Federal Reserve,
withdraw taxpayer support
from central banking
agencies such as the
IMF and World Bank,
allow development of
alternative currencies
and independent banks, and
refuse international taxes.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: This is really,
really important
because it gives us solutions.
It gives us a context in which
to make those solutions happen.
But what I also want to know
is, as I'm watching this movie
and as I'm getting riled
up about the control that's
happening around me that I
wasn't even aware of-- I want
to know when I walk
away from that film,
what can I do that minute?
What can I do in my family?
What can I do?
>>K. GAMBLE: Well
one of things we
do is we sort of highlight
our top 10 actions.
And just briefly,
one idea is-- I
mean, the notion of getting
informed and speaking up
is critical.
And its challenging to do that.
And one of the things
that I recommend
is watching "Thrive" in a
community setting of some sort
so that you can actually
get a support system going
for people who are doing.
You can actually take
on the top 10 actions
together as a community.
You can have friends
to talk to about it
who are exploring
the same information.
So that's key.
Banking locally.
We have a way on
our website where
you can type in your zip code
and find a local bank near you.
Joining coalitions to keep
the internet fair and open
is a critical action.
That's really how
this all spread.
So that's something
that we recommend.
And also, I think, it's really
important to find those things
that most-- you can most
relate to and begin there.
So we have a whole array
of immediate actions
that you can take right now.
>>LISA: This is very important.
I actually want you to
take a look at this.
This clip shows and follows up
a little bit about what Kimberly
was just saying, about getting
into local neighborhood
solutions.
Take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>K. GAMBLE: Here are
some tactical actions
that we can take as individuals
that don't take much time
or money to make a real
difference, right now.
Get informed.
Speak up and
connect with others.
Bank locally.
When we move our money out
of the big, centralized banks
and into locally owned
banks and credit unions,
we de-fund the problem and fund
the solution all in one move.
Buy and invest responsibly.
Every dollar you
spend sends a message.
Join the movement to audit
and end the Federal Reserve.
It's robbing us.
Join a coalition to keep
the internet fair and open.
Don't let anybody
take control over it.
Support independent media.
Get your information
from diverse sources
and think about who's
funding the news you get.
Support organic,
non-GMO farming.
Join movements to bring
about honest elections,
including traceable paper
ballots and campaign finance
reform.
Congress can only
be accountable to us
when corporations
stop funding them.
Advocate for renewable
and new energy technology.
Bring the conversation about
free energy out into the open.
It will transform the power
dynamic on this planet faster
than anything in
recorded history.
Sign up for critical
mass actions.
It's a strategy to
leverage our power
by waiting until a
huge number of us
agree to participate
before taking an action.
Imagine a million of
us acting in unison.
Then again, imagine even more.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: That is great.
There's a lot of great
questions coming in--
or comments coming
in on Facebook.
Laura is saying, is
homeschooling my children
a solution?
There's someone
else, from Chris.
Chris is basically saying,
are going to farmers markets
and visiting farmers markets
part of the solutions?
Are those?
Is that correct?
>>K. GAMBLE: Absolutely.
I mean, I have to say
it, homeschooling--
it takes a community
to do homeschooling.
And so it's a privilege,
and it's something
that communities need
to organize around.
I had an opportunity
to home school
some of my kids
some of the time.
And it was hugely helpful.
So I think, absolutely.
And especially not making
your children wrong
if they're not doing well
in a public school setting.
If they're not sitting
there well, if they're not
taking the tests well, to really
be careful that you don't have
them take on the
lack of self-esteem
that comes from that or the
lack of critical thinking.
So I'm a huge
homeschooling advocate.
>>F. GAMBLE: And I would
say to Chris, absolutely.
I'm thrilled to see the
growth of farmers markets.
And people are catching
on to a lot of the stuff
that you get in the
old-fashioned stores--
or the modern stores with
old-fashioned thinking-- it's
not whole food anymore.
It's the pesticides, the
herbicides, the fertilizers,
it's the GMO, it's the fluoride.
So more and more
people are going, OK,
how can I run this
gantlet of toxins
and actually get clean
water and clean food?
And farmers markets and non-GMO
actions are part of that.
>>LISA: So that's all part of
the global world domination--
is the pesticides and the GMOs.
>>K. GAMBLE: Yes.
Because the whole
pesticides and fertilizers
make us oil dependent.
Make food oil dependent.
>>LISA: I see the link.
And that makes perfect sense.
So do you have your own
personal solutions around this?
What are your concepts,
your theories?
What do you do in
your personal lives?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well,
as much as possible,
we try to eat
natural, organic food.
We try to stay out of
electromagnetic fields
as much as we can.
Avoiding the new smart meters
and that type of stuff.
Keep chemicals out
of your environment.
There's that whole realm of it.
And then most fundamentally,
on the larger scale,
the core thing that I have
found in all of this research,
that the one thing that all
human beings seem to agree to
is that we don't want to be
violated against our will.
And so this
non-violation principle
that we talk about in the movie
can be, I think, the compass.
I can't overstate
this-- that can
allow us to actually
survive as a species
and then thrive on a healthy
planet if we understand it.
And then begin taking it into
all the areas of our live.
>>LISA: It's actually very
well explained in the film.
Take a look at this.
This is the
non-violation principal.
Take a look at this.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>F. GAMBLE: I want to take
you to a possible world
of the future.
It's a world the
elite would have
you believe is an
impossible pipe dream.
But I'm convinced
it's a world that
is utterly within our grasp.
We can create a world
where people can thrive,
where we can feel
safe and secure.
The air, water,
and food are clean.
A world where
communities are capable
of producing their
own energy and food.
And trade is open and fair.
Rather than focusing
on punishment,
instead justice restores
lives and losses.
Insurance pays doctors
to keep people healthy.
Education is voluntary,
serving the needs
of individuals instead
of corporations.
We get honest feedback
from independent media.
There are no subsidies
and no bailouts.
Imagine that with an
honest money system, little
or no taxes, and low
electric and fuel bills,
you would have the money to
pay off your home and car,
and be free to save and invest.
You would enjoy more wealth,
freedom, and security.
All while working the
same or probably less.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: See, that's what I love
about this movie is it gives us
a vision of a possible future.
If we don't see it in our
immediate communities,
we can see it on
a movie like this.
Because you put it
together like this.
Does this exist anywhere
that you know of?
>>F. GAMBLE: It exists
in little pockets.
There are sustainable
communities
that are growing their
experimental groups that live
in houses or on land.
And there are organizations.
There's a Free State Project
going on in New Hampshire
right now where
people who are really
dedicated to
non-coercive systems
are all moving to New
Hampshire by the thousands
and starting to create
an alternative society.
If you live in a family where
people honor each other's
well being and don't
violate each other.
Don't coerce, don't hit,
and all that kind of stuff--
you get a taste
of what it can be
like with the love
and the security
that's there in a system
where people are not
violating each other.
>>K. GAMBLE: I think, also,
just this whole notion
of voluntary and
local communities
really coming together.
Like Catherine Austin Fitts
has these Solari Circles
where somebody who's in
debt with a credit card
gets together with someone
who has money to invest,
and the investor pays
off the credit card.
And instead they have a local
dynamic and relationship
where maybe the credit card is
now a 5% interest rate, which
is a good rate for someone
with an investment.
And so it's like
a local solution
that they can
participate in in a way
that you get the big middle
people out of the picture.
Or you can invest in something
in your local community
that, you know, the
Boys And Girls Club.
And when it does well, the
whole community does better.
And you can make money that way.
So there are those
kinds of solutions
that people are trying.
And so it might look
like a little thing,
but one of the things about now,
facilitated by Thrive movement
and other movements-- and
independent media, thank you.
As people become
aware of each other
and all these best
practices can be shared,
I think that we can
access these solutions
much faster than has
happened in the past.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
What do we do about the
cell phones, and the email,
and the passports, and the
tracking, and all of that?
Is there anything that we
can do to empower ourselves
around that?
>>F. GAMBLE: I think
grassroots movements
to do vast
demonstrations, petitions,
all that kind of thing.
Insist that your political
representatives not
be in favor of
that kind of stuff.
Or vote them out of office.
And ultimately, to just simply
withdraw our participation
from any companies, any
intelligence organizations,
any governments who are
violating us in that way.
>>K. GAMBLE: And I
want to point out there
that campaign finance
reform is really
a critical prerequisite to any
of these legislative changes.
Because right now the notion of
voting somebody in and having
them represent you,
it's just not happening.
And it won't happen unless
they're publicly funded
and unless corporate
person hood stops.
And you can make
sure that there's
paper ballots that are
being counted fairly.
And that your vote is
actually going to count.
And that the person
running does what
they say they're going to do.
So to me, campaign
finance reform
is a critical part of any
kind of legislative hope.
>>LISA: But I have to be the
skeptic as well because I'm
so much the choir.
I need to see, is that
a possible future?
Is that something
that will ever happen?
>>K. GAMBLE: Well,
I think it's either
going to happen through
a more violent revolution
or it's going to
happen that way.
But it's going to happen
one way or another.
I'm absolutely convinced.
There's a revolution brewing.
We're feeling it
all over the place.
>>LISA: Is that true?
>>K. GAMBLE: People
are waking up.
Absolutely.
And the Federal
Reserve-- I mean, just
finding out that it's
a private corporation.
>>LISA: That was mind blowing.
>>K. GAMBLE: And that
it's a rigged system.
And as people are watching
how difficult it is just
to make it.
And you become aware of the
alternatives that exist.
I'm confident.
>>F. GAMBLE: It's also critical
to realize that we outnumber
the few people who are actually
perpetrating these covert
agendas--
>>LISA: That's a good point.
>>F. GAMBLE: --by
over a million to one.
So as shows like
this wake up people,
and as they do
their own homework
through an open
internet and so forth,
then people's creativity
gets unleashed.
And they will
insist, ultimately,
on liberty and fairness,
because they always have.
>>LISA: I'd love to see
what your solutions are,
what you're creating
in your community.
Share it with us on Facebook.
Because I read some of
them on the show here.
There is a clip here that I want
to share with you about some
of the solutions.
It's kind of an
overlapping system
here that we can take a
look at around solutions.
Let's take a look.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>F. GAMBLE: We can't
do everything at once.
I envision three
overlapping stages
of the solutions process.
In stage one we bring as
much integrity as possible
to our current systems.
If we cut the US
military budget in half,
it would still roughly
equal the defense spending
of the entire rest of the world.
Between that and getting
rid of the Federal Reserve,
over a trillion
dollars a year would
be freed-- enough to feed
everyone on our planet,
deal with social issues,
and heal our environment.
Many people believe that
widespread starvation
and poverty are inevitable.
But compared to war,
eliminating poverty
and restoring the
environment are cheap.
According to Lester Brown's
Earth Policy Institute,
it would take under
$200 billion a year
to restore the
Earth's environment
and meet global social goals.
But this stage
isn't the end goal
of the liberty perspective.
While stage one has a
lot of the compassion
typically associated with
the liberal Democrat agenda,
stage two reflects
much of the wisdom
of the traditional,
conservative worldview.
In stage two we shrink
government's role to protecting
individual liberty
and store it in things
we share in common, like
ecosystems and the airwaves
we use to communicate.
As the system gains integrity
and we move to sound currency,
people will have
enough money to have
more control over everything
that affects them.
Stage three grows out of
the increasing freedom
that people gain in
stages one and two,
as they have more
money and more time.
There is no involuntary
tax and therefore
no involuntary governance.
There's no monopoly on force.
There are rules but no rulers.
Rigorously protecting
individual rights
turns out to be key for
honoring our interdependence.
We can be distinct and
unified at the same time.
As Utopian as this
can sound at first,
I've been thrilled to see how
much practical thinking has
been done to deal
with tough issues
like health care,
crime, and education.
These three stages
validate the best
of both the liberal and
conservative perspectives
that have divided us for so
long and then reconcile them
at a new level
around non-violation,
a core ethic we all share.
Stage three honors
human incentive
and finally includes the rights
of not just many, not just
most, but everyone.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: This is great.
We are getting a lot of
feedback coming back in.
From Sarah, in her
apartment complex,
says that she's having
regular meetings,
setting up a recycling program.
We've got Potter here
who says that he's
going to get his parents
to watch "Thrive".
And then they can share it with
their friends, which is great.
>>K. GAMBLE: I want to
mention something about that
because we've found a
lot of people sharing
this cross-generation
and also cross-politics.
Because really this is--
and Foster can talk--
>>LISA: It's a global.
>>K. GAMBLE: --this more.
But this is really based
on principles not politics.
So we found over
Thanksgiving and the holidays
that people were sharing
this and saying, jeez,
I finally had a really
good conversation
with my uncle who I never
could relate to before.
Or even parents, and
siblings, or whatever it was.
So I think cross-generation and
cross-political perspectives--
"Thrive" has a lot to offer
to have us actually find out
what we have in common
and what we need to do.
>>LISA: And it brings
communities together.
>>K. GAMBLE: Yes, exactly.
>>F. GAMBLE: The conversation
is moving to a new level
beyond you wear a red
shirt or a blue shirt,
or you're a conservative
or a liberal-- to what's
really going on in the world.
And what can we do it that's
based on principles that we all
agree to rather than on
who's got the most power
and who's got the most money.
So we're thrilled
with what's going on.
We're seeing in communities
all across the world
that people are organizing
in Thrive solutions groups,
on their own.
And we're empowering
them with a model
that we used successfully in
California to stop the Bush
administration from spraying
toxic poisons on 7 million
of us.
They were going to do
that for up to 10 years.
And we used this
model where people
could come together and identify
what sector their passion
and skills are in.
So the lawyers did
the justice part.
And the scientists did the
environment or the health.
And we worked on the
follow the money thing
to find out what
was really going on.
And it created this kind
of laser type coherence
of activism that
ended up stopping
that onslaught in six months.
And we're sharing this
model now so that people
can, in their local communities,
not only initiate actions
but find out what's already
going on in terms of GMO,
or fluoride, or
justice, or whatever.
And just simply link
those organizations
together so that the
different sectors are talking
to each other and
each person can
relax into the
level of engagement,
either immediate needs,
or systemic change,
or the consciousness
shift-- the level
that they're most
excited about and realize
that their community is
also addressing it all.
Nobody has to do
it all, but it's
important to have it
all be in communication.
And then linking those with
other cities around the world.
>>LISA: There's a
picture of this model
that you're talking about.
And this can be found at
the thrivemovement.com.
>>K. GAMBLE: Yeah.
And it's something where
that program was $300 million
that we stopped in six months.
And when we used the
Freedom of Information
to subpoena some of the
inside correspondence,
they said we had anticipated
some resistance from Santa
Cruz, but we didn't know it
would be so well organized.
And it's really true that
this provides an opportunity
for-- we wanted to
follow the money.
Somebody else is really
good at the politics.
>>LISA: Here is the
model that we were just
looking up there on the screen.
>>F. GAMBLE: So you can see
the sectors around the outside.
For the viewers, pick
which one of those sectors
draws you the most.
And then the levels.
There's three toruses going
in towards the center.
Are you someone who wants
to be feeding the hungry
or working on the system, the
political or economic system
that is having people go hungry?
Or do you want to be
working on the consciousness
shift from which-- the
worldviews from which
all of those systems arise?
>>LISA: So one of our
Facebook questions
is coming in saying, does
the election really matter?
If there is a world global
domination happening?
What is the election mean?
>>F. GAMBLE: Well
I have to be frank
that it's pretty much come down
to Obama versus Romney now.
In the research I've
done, they both work
for the same entities.
And if you look in our
film and the website,
this follow the
money pyramid, you'll
realize the President
of the United States
is not the most powerful
person even in this country,
much less in the world.
That's level two with five
levels of banks-- corporations,
and banks, and international
banks, and secret societies,
and so forth on top of them.
So in this particular
election, I
don't think it will
make much difference.
Based on principles, I'm very
enthusiastic about people
like Dennis Cousinage
and like Ron Paul, who'd
be willing to risk
their lives to speak out
against the Federal
Reserve and to shut down
these wars of aggression.
That's where the conversation
is coming to principles rather
to politics.
>>K. GAMBLE: Yeah, right.
Because they're not
even the same party.
We're obviously not libertarian,
we're not conservative,
we're not progressive.
We're really going for
the principles here.
>>LISA: Well there's
visionary leaders
that we have-- that
you do have on the film
as well that are
talking about this.
Let's take a look at
what they have to say.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>DEEPAK CHOPRA: In
order to heal the world,
we have to start telling a
different story to ourselves.
We have to start engaging in
a different story with others.
It's our collective story
that manifests as the world.
>>ELIZABET SAHTOURIS:
Humanity is now
in a very interesting
evolutionary phase in which we
move from hostile, aggressive
competition-- which
is the nature of young
species-- into a more
mature mode of
cooperation, collaboration.
>>AMY GOODMAN:
There's no question
in this country that
money, that capital,
is being increasingly
concentrated
in the hands of a few.
And those who are so powerful
are concentrating it further.
But there is a force
that's more powerful,
and that's the
power of the people.
>>BARBARA MARX HUBBARD: When
we look at the crises now,
it is so easy to fall
out of love with love.
It is so easy to get
pessimistic and desperate.
But from my
perspective, the crisis
has matured to
the point of being
on the threshold
of mass awakening,
and that feeling inside
me gives me the vitality
to know that, no
matter how small
what I'm doing looks
to me in the face
of these huge problems, that
the impulse of evolution
is not small.
And when it's in everybody
who's waking up, it's huge.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>LISA: I love
Barbara Marx Hubbard.
She's so great.
>>K. GAMBLE: You know, one
thing I just want to say
is that the-- in
the course of this,
we found that the people who
are the most informed, in fact,
are the most hopeful.
And we've really found
that we are increasingly
hopeful and optimistic
because understanding what's
in the way of our thriving--
it's like having a disease.
Once you know the problem
and how it operates,
then you can have a
chance to solve it.
If someone just says
you're sick, good luck.
And that really is happening.
And that bears into how do I
share this with my children?
Maybe some clips of it.
Who are they?
How old are they?
And stuff.
But to do it in a
way that's empowering
for them to understand that
because of understanding this,
then we can go at the
solutions in an effective way.
>>F. GAMBLE: As a
teacher of aikido,
I used to teach my students
the first imperative
is to have an accurate
assessment of your reality.
Because if you don't know
what's coming from behind you,
you're going to pay the price.
And that's why it's worth
exposing just enough
to understand what's
really going on.
And then leading the whole
situation into the solutions.
Because, as I said, we
outnumber the perpetrators
by a million to one.
We're unleashing the
human creativity.
And if you're wondering
what one person can do,
go to the website,
print out that top 10.
Tack it onto your
refrigerator, and just
start marking off any ones you
believe in and that you can do.
>>LISA: Perfect and
like with aikido,
you could use that
energy as momentum
to then work towards your
solution, which is great.
Thank you so much for making
this movie, for bringing it
to us for free.
You can go to
thrivemovement.com,
and you can see the movie there.
There's all sorts of great
solutions on the website
as well.
Just thank you so much.
>>F. GAMBLE: You're welcome.
And thanks to Gaiam for being
a beacon in independent media.
It's exactly what's needed.
>>K. GAMBLE: Absolutely,
and thanks to you.
>>LISA: Absolutely.
And you can see more of this
interview on gaiamtv.com.
You can sign up for a free trial
subscription on gaiamtv.com.
You'll see the full
90 minute interview.
A lot of great clips
on that as well.
Check out the movie
at thrivemovement.com.
And again, thank
you both very much.
My goal here was to get
the information out there
for you guys to carry on
and take action yourselves.
Until next time, I invite
you to stay inspired.